So let's dive into our code
and as I mentioned multiple times, let's test it under production circumstances.
So here in my terminal in the editor, I'll run npm run build prod and this will build it for production.
Now the problem we have with that of course is that now we build this
but now we have no running dev server.
Now we can of course use a development server like serve which we used earlier and manually navigate into
the dist folder and then run serve there if you still got that installed to run that but it's not the approach
I want to use, instead here
I will tweak the webpack.config.js file and set my mode here to production actually, to make sure
that this is optimized and we do have our production environment
but at the same time I want to make sure that we use a dev tool that gives us source maps so that in
the browser dev tools we can map our optimized code back to the original code, which doesn't bloat our
code because most source maps when you add them to your code, they also affect the size of the code
but thankfully webpack also has an option we can choose here which gives us a source map with all the
features we need without affecting our code size,
it just takes a bit longer to generate it but here, that's not a problem,
we got time.
So what we want to use here is now just source map.
Now if we run npm run build dev again, we're using this configuration which now I actually built for
production or simulates production but which also uses a dev server and gives us source maps so that
when we analyze our code in the dev tools, we can still find out which parts of our original code are responsible
for that. So now with that, back here in our application if we go to the network tab and we clear everything
there and we reload,
we see now shop.js is much smaller as you can tell.
Now I will say it's still not exactly on the same level as the fully optimized code, just to quickly
also show that, if I would run npm run build prod to use my other webpack config where I also
build for production but where I use a better source map which is smaller and doesn't add anything to
the files or almost not anything, if we use that and we then go into the dist folder and there I use that
serve package which we installed earlier in the course,
if I now visit the server, the host spun up by this serve development server and there we inspect
the network tab, you see we only have 9kb.
So this is actually what we will have in the end once we ship this to a server,
it's also gzipped, so compressed by our server we're using here and therefore it's even smaller.
That is something you set up on the server side though, so that's such a server side configuration optimization
I was talking about and you'll find an article, a text lecture with more resources on how to configure
your server and what you might want to keep in mind there later in this module.
Still for our purposes here, this should be fine,
using this in-between solution, though if you want to do it perfectly, you would actually use the real
production build but then you don't have source maps,
so if we would use cheap source map here in the other webpack config file, we should achieve something
similar, we still might have some overhead because of our webpack dev server but it should be closer
to the final size but debugging or finding problems in our code would then be harder.
So I will go for this in-between approach and run npm run build dev with this adjusted webpack config
which is closer to the production result.
So here, we got this size here which is okay
and now with that, let's in general find out how we can analyze this app and improve our code.